EZP-30495: Personalization review (#622)
ezsystems/developer-documentation: docs/guide/personalization.md

you can configure this as follows (an example file is available in the bundle under `Resources/config/default_settings.yml`):

> ``` yaml

Reviewer: Above comment about authentication methods shouldn't be removed

ezrecommendation:
    system:
        <siteaccess>:
            export:
                authentication:
                    method:
                    login: 1111

>                     password: 12345-12345-1234-1234-1234

Reviewer: Default authentication method should be "basic"

I think we should also add info about using "user" method. If we choose this method then login must be the same as customer_id and password must be the same as license_key. I think it will be more readable if we set login to 12345 and password = 1234-5678-9012-3456-7890 (as we have for customer_id and license_Key)

ez_recommendation.export.users_authentication.password: '<licenseKey>'
```

Place this in a settings file which won't be affected by an update to the bundle.

## Configuration

### Set up Content Type tracking

Visitor events (clicks, buys, etc.) on the site need to be sent to the Recommendation engine for the recommendations to be calculated.
The Content Types that are tracked are also exported to the engine.
Tracking Content Types is required for displaying recommendations.

You define Content Types to track in the local `app/config/config.yml` file.
The content will then be initially exported by a script.
After this, it will be kept in sync with the Personalization Solution every time a change occurs in the eZ Platform Back Office.

The bundle's configuration is SiteAccess-aware. This is an example of the settings (in `config.yml`):

``` yaml
ez_recommendation:
    system:
        <siteaccess>:
            recommendation:
                customer_id: 12345
                license_key: 1234-5678-9012-3456-7890
            server_uri: http://example.com
            recommender:

>                 included_content_types: [blog, article]

Reviewer: This one should be under the recommendation key (the same as customer_id and license_key)

            response:
                random_content_types: [blog]
```

| Parameter                            | Description                                               |
|--------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------|
| `recommendation.customer_id`         | Your customer ID.                                         |
| `recommendation.license_key`         | Your license key.                                         |
| `server_uri`                         | The URI your site's REST API can be accessed from.        |

> | `recommender.included_content_types` | Content Types on which the tracking script will be shown. |

Reviewer: recommendation.included_content_types

The bundle's configuration is SiteAccess-aware. This is an example of the settings (in `config.yaml`):

``` yaml
ezrecommendation:
    system:
        <siteaccess>:
            authentication:
                customer_id: 12345
                license_key: 1234-5678-9012-3456-7890
            included_content_types: [blog, article]
            random_content_types: [blog]
            host_uri: http://example.com
```

!!! tip

>     It is recommended to provide your customer ID and license key through environment variables: `'%env()%'`.

Reviewer: We should also use environment variable to provide HOST_URI

        script_url: cdn.yoochoose.net/yct.js
```

!!! caution

    Changing any of these parameters without a valid reason will break all calls to the Recommendation engine.

#### Enable tracking

The `EzRecommendationClientBundle` delivers a Twig extension

> which helps integrate the tracking functionality into your site.

Reviewer: There is only user tracking provided by Twig extension so maybe it should be "which helps integrate the user tracking functionality into your site."

}
```

## Exporting content information

To get recommendations you must first export the content information to the Recommendation engine.

After [defining which Content Types should be tracked and recommended](#set-up-content-type-tracking),
start the full export by executing the following command:

``` bash
php bin/console ezrecommendation:export:run
    --contentTypeIdList=<contentTypeId>,<contentTypeId>
    --webHook=https://admin.yoochoose.net/api/<your_customer_id>/items
    --hidden=1 --mandatorId=<your_customer_id>
    --host=<your_ezplatform_host_with_scheme>
```

With this command, the bundle exporter collects all content related to the SiteAccesses of this customerID and stores it in files (1).
After finishing, the systems sends a POST request to the `webHook` endpoint and informs the Recommendation engine to fetch new content (2).
An internal workflow is then triggered (3) so that the generated files are downloaded (4) and imported in the Recommendation engine's content store (5).

> The export process can take up to a few minutes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The export process can take a few minutes.
```

![Recommendation Full Content Export](img/full_content_export.png)

!!! caution "Re-exporting modified Content Types"

    If the Content Types to be recommended are changed, you need to perform a new full export
    by running the `php bin/console ezrecommendation:export:run` command again.

### Checking export results

There are three ways to check if content was transferred and stored successfully in the Recommendation engine:

#### REST request to the recommender's content store

To get the content of an imported item you can request the following REST resource:

> `GET https://admin.yoochoose.net/api/<your_customer_id>/item/<your_content_type>/<your_content_id>`

Reviewer: Add "_id" at the end of "your_content_type" parameter (should be: your_content_type_id)

            {
                "yc_score": 1.152622938156128,
                "yc_id": "73",
                "yc_itemtype": "38",
                "name": "Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic",
                "uri": "/Places-Tastes/Places/Santo-Domingo-Dominican-Republic",
                "author": "Michael Wang"
            }
        ],
        "details": [
            {
                "scope": "ITEM",
                "itemType": 38,
                "count": 2
            }
        ]
    }
    ```

### Subsequent content exports

The Recommendation engine is automatically kept in sync with the content in eZ Platform.

Every time an editor creates, updates or deletes content in the Back Office (1),
a notification is sent to https://admin.yoochoose.net (2).
The recommendation service also notifies other components of the Recommendation engine (3)
and it eventually fetches the affected content (4) and updates it internally (5).

![Subsequent Content exports](img/incremental_content_export.png)

## Displaying recommendations

!!! note "Client-based recommendations"

    Recommendations are fetched and rendered asynchronously in the client, so there is no additional load on the server.

>     Therefore it is crucial to check if the content export has been successful, as e.g. deeplinks and image references are included.

Reviewer: {% javascripts
    '@EzRecommendationClientBundle/Resources/public/js/EzRecommendationClient.js'
%}

    If the export is NOT successful, the Recommendation engine will not have the full content information.
    This will break the recommendations. Even if the recommendations are displayed,
    there is a big chance they won't have images, titles or deeplinks.

In order to display recommendations on your site, use a dedicated `showRecommendationsAction` from the `RecommendationController.php`:

``` html+twig
render_esi(controller(‘EzRecommendationClientBundle:Recommendation:showRecommendations’, {
               ‘contextItems’: content.id,
               ‘scenario’: ‘front’,
               ‘outputTypeId’: ‘blog_post’,
               ‘limit’: 3,
               ‘template’: ‘EzRecommendationClientBundle::recommendations.html.twig’,
               ‘attributes’: [‘title’, ‘intro’, ‘image’, ‘uri’]
           }))

> ```

Reviewer: We also need to add information about required recommendation script 

{% javascripts
    '@EzRecommendationClientBundle/Resources/public/js/EzRecommendationClient.js'
%}

This script must be implemented because it is responsible for send notification ping to recommendation API after click on tracking element

### Parameters

| Parameter        | Type   | Description   |
|------------------|--------|---------------|

> | `contextItems`   | int    | The content you want to get recommendations for. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `contextItems`   | int    | ID of the content you want to get recommendations for. |
```

> | `contextItems`   | int    | ID of the content you want to get recommendations for. |

Reviewer: I don't like this parameter name. It should be contextItem because it represent only one value. I will change it in code and please change it also in doc.

| `scenario`       | string | Scenario used to display recommendations. You can create custom scenarios in the [Recommendation engine's dashboard](https://admin.yoochoose.net). |

> | `outputTypeId`   | string | Content Type you are expecting in response, e.g. article. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `outputTypeId`   | string | Content Type you are expecting in response, e.g. blog_post. |
```

We have blog_post in the example

| `limit`          | int    | Number of recommendations to fetch. |
| `template`       | string | Template name. |
| `attributes`     | array  | Fields which are required and will be requested from the Recommendation engine. These Field names are also used inside Handlebars templates. |

You can also bypass named arguments using standard value passing as arguments.

Recommendation responses contain all content data which is requested as attribute in the recommendation call.
This response data can be used in templates to render and style recommendations.

> For example, the following GET request below delivers the response below

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, the following GET request should deliver the response below
```

To render recommended content, use a dedicated `showRecommendationsAction` from the `RecommendationController.php`:

``` html+twig

> {% if ez_recommendation_enabled() and not location.isDraft %}#}

Reviewer: This condition always should be use when we have custom templates with some html blocks. In case if recommendation credentials are not provided then we will be have empty html blocks. This is why we use this conditions in demo but you missed <div class="container"></div> inside condition. By default using this condition is not necessary. 

Remove second condition because someone can change "location" parameter and it break template rendering.

## Troubleshooting

### Logging

> Most operations are logged via the `ez_recommendation` [Monolog channel](http://symfony.com/doc/current/cookbook/logging/channels_handlers.html).

Reviewer 2: current -> 4.x (to be specified)

Author: It's not 100% certain which Symfony version 3.0 will be based on, so I think we can leave current for now and then fix all links together.
